In 2011,
we opened the black box and shared the blueprints,
but blueprints don't build themselves.
To actually change the industry,
we needed an innovation engine that is powered by openness.
What we needed was a community.
Today,
the open compute project isn't just a library of specifications.
It's a living community driven by a shared goal,
creating open solutions for data center
operators facing extreme scaling challenges.
Putting thousands of engineers in a single room
gets you lots of great ideas,
but that brainpower needs to be properly channeled.
So,
the work of OCP happens in specialized project groups.
You can think of these as engineering departments.
You have teams dedicated entirely to rec and power,
other focused on cooling environments,
and others write open source networking specifications,
and so there are many more.
But this is where the magic happens.
We put the hyper scaler who actually
builds and runs these mega data centers
in the same room as the vendor who builds the hardware
and the industry that is using that same equipment.
They argue about physics.
They iterate on the designs,
and they solve problems together before a single piece of metal is stamped.
But it's not the wild west.
Before any design becomes an official OCP standard,
it has to get past the technical gatekeepers,
the steering committee.
They are a panel of elected industry experts who ruthlessly review any submission.
If a design doesn't meet the strict tenets for efficiency,
impact,
openness,
scalability,
and sustainability,
it goes right back to the drawing board.
But once the committee approves the specification,
it's locked in.
Vendors can then manufacture the physical hardware.
Earned the OCP accepted mark.
And lists them on the marketplace for the rest of the world to see,
buy,
and deploy.
The community identifies the bottleneck,
the project groups design the solution,
and the committee ensures the quality.
That's how we move the industry forward.
And now that you know how the engine works,
let's talk about my favorite topic,
hardware.